---
title: (Part 1) The Android Twitter Client Showdown
date: 2016-12-06
---

#### Falcon Pro, Talon, Flamingo and Fenix go head to head

I've been using Twitter for a long time now. I first
signed up in October of the year 2010, four years after the initial
launch. I've used is fairy regularly, with a total of 14,800+ tweets and
have met a fairly wide range of people on the platform. I don't claim to
be an expert, or even well know on the platform (276 followers is hardly
"famous"). But, over the years, I have garnered much experience with
different Twitter clients, starting with the web client as it was back
in 2010, then moving to the official Twitter app on my old 1st
generation iPad (no, not pro or anything... 1st gen iPad). Somehow I
stumbled onto Tweetbot, which became my defacto (and still is, if I used
iOS) Twitter client for iOS.

But back to the point. Over the next few weeks, or indeed months because
I have a busy few coming up, I will be taking a few Android Twitter
clients for a spin: [Talon](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.klinker.android.twitter_l), [Flamingo](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.samruston.twitter), [Falcon Pro 3](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.jv.materialfalcon&hl=en), and [Fenix](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=it.mvilla.android.fenix). All three of these apps offer fast, customizable
experiences for Twitter, perhaps not with features on par with the
official Twitter app, but you can blame the fact Twitter is locking down
their API big time
\[[Forbes](http://www.forbes.com/sites/ianmorris/2014/08/20/twitter-is-destroying-itself/#77a6716971b7),
[ITWorld](http://www.itworld.com/article/2712336/unified-communications/the-death-of-the-twitter-api-or-a-new-beginning-.html)\].

My methodology is pretty straightforward. During the month of December,
I will use each one for one week, testing and prodding each one to
unlock the depths. Then, once all (four) have gone through the gauntlet,
I will then allow myself the freedom of choice -- whichever one I find
myself using the most will be the "winner".

#### Initial Impressions

All four of these support multiple accounts, however with Falcon Pro
there is a small caveat, which is for each account you want to add you
are required to purchase a new "account slot", which is about \$2. The
initial purchase to add one account is on par with the rest of the apps,
about \$5, Talon coming in at \$3.99, Fenix at \$6.49, and Flamingo
coming in at \$2.79, the cheapest and also the newest of the four (all
prices USD). Each one features material design, interestingly enough in
a variety of styles. Each app has it's own customization, each with it's
own advantages. Flamingo feels the most tweakable, letting you set your
own colours for basically everything. Falcon Pro is by far the least
customizable, however that is not necessarily a bad thing depending on
your use case and how much you enjoy fiddling with settings.

Album of each Twitter client's interface

> "All life is an experiment. The more experiments you make the
> better." -- Ralph Waldo Emerson
