---
title: Things Twitter Should Do Better
date: 2016-01-14
---

#### Just some notes...

Twitter is going downhill (in my opinion). Since Jack
Dorsey became CEO (again), there have been some... *interesting*
additions. The number one, most useless thing they wasted their time on
is **Twitter Moments**. Moments is basically a summary of media the
people who follow have tweeted. I'd like to see some stats on how many
people use it, and how many of those people clicked it either by
accident or out of idle curiosity. I don't think it's something Twitter
should have spent time developing -- perhaps their time would have been
better spent improving their existing things, like making the Twitter
mobile app more consistent or streamlining Twitter for Web -- or hell,
even making TweetDeck nicer to use.

The official Twitter app for Android (not sure about iOS) is a mess. The
most prominent issue I have is the fact that the top navigation bar will
change what icons it has where, either when I switch between accounts or
just restart the app. Their bottom nav is terrible too -- it will cycle
between a clunky floating action button, a bar with a faux-text input
and camera icon, and a three-section bar consisting of a new tweet,
camera, and gallery icons. What is this? Why on Earth do we need three
different nav styles -- that it *cycles between?!* I want to know both
how and why this decision was made, if it can count as a decision.

I think the worst part of this whole Twitter app debacle is that they
have people at Twitter who know how to do Twitter apps. The creator of
[Falcon Pro](http://getfalcon.pro/)
works at Twitter, and I consider his app an absolutely amazing Twitter
experience. So how why is the experience so terrible? And why are they
focusing on new things like an edit button (rumored), 10,000 character
tweets (again, rumored), and **bloody Twitter Moments**.

#### So, Mr. Jack Dorsey, how could you make Twitter decent again?

First, take a step back. Remember what you envisioned Twitter being. No,
not a text-only messaging system, that's a terrible idea, and remember
how much debt Twitter was in after that. No, rather, take a step back
and simplify. Cut out the 'features' you think are fantastic. Make it a
140-character microblogging platform. Cut out anything that you can see
any reason to have. Open up your API more and let devs work on what they
want to. Why? Because people want and have freedom of choice. If they
don't want to use the official Twitter app, fine. Let them use an
unofficial one, an unofficial one that has actual access to something
resembling an API, not extremely basic functions. And fix your own
official apps, so people are actually tempted to use them. Keep the
140-character limit, because it's a gimmick that worked. Return Likes to
Favorites, because you're not Facebook, as much as you want to work
there. Maybe fix up Tweetdeck so it's a little nicer to use, modernize
the UI and make it flow. Promote the Falcon Pro author to a position
where he can make some UI/UX suggestions and actually get heard.

And above all, *please don't kill the blue bird.*
